The giant Rukmuka enters right. Walking with slow and heavy
steps, he trembles frightfully, brimming with vigour. On the
gong stroke that concludes the ﬁrst gong phrase of
Guntur, the dhalang presses Rukmuka against the
screen in the right gawang. Rukmuka sits down  and strokes
his shock of hair.
Rukmuka’s younger brother Rukmakala appears from the
left, his right hand on his loincloth. He advances to
the centre and nods to Rukmuka, who extends his arm
in greeting. Rukmakala nods again, grabs his brother’s
hand, and shakes it.
Rukmakala sits down opposite Rukmuka and puts his hand
in his lap.
By means of a dhodhogan pattern, the dhalang cues the
gamelan to accelerate and proceed to a slow pianissimo.